README.md, before:

## OpenCV C++ Stereo Camera Calibration

This repository contains some sources to calibrate the intrinsics of individual cameras and also the extrinsics of a stereo pair.

### Dependencies

- OpenCV
- popt

### Compilation

Compile all the files using the following commands.

```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

Make sure your are in the `build` folder to run the executables.

### Get images from webcams

This is a small helper tool to grab frames from two webcams operating as a stereo pair. Run the following command to use it.

```bash
./read -w [img_width] -h [img_height] -d [imgs_directory] -e [file_extension]
```

Once it is running, hit any key to grab frames. Images are saved with prefixes `left` and `right` in the desired directory.

### Intrinsic calibration of a single camera

This is only for lenses which follow the pinhole model. If you have fisheye lenses with a very wide field of view then see [this](https://github.com/sourishg/fisheye_stereo_calibration) repository. The calibration saves the camera matrix and the distortion coefficients in a YAML file. The datatype for these matrices is `Mat`.

Once you have compiled the sources run the following command to calibrate the intrinsics.

```bash
./calibrate -w [board_width] -h [board_height] -n [num_imgs] -s [square_size] -d [imgs_directory] -i [imgs_filename] -e [file_extension] -o [output_filename]
```

For example, the command for the test images in `calib_imgs/1/` would be

```bash
./calibrate -w 9 -h 6 -n 27 -s 0.02423 -d "../calib_imgs/1/" -i "left" -o "cam_left.yml" -e "jpg"
```

### Stereo calibration for extrinisics

Once you have the intrinsics calibrated for both the left and the right cameras, you can use their intrinsics to calibrate the extrinsics between them.

```bash
./calibrate_stereo -n [num_imgs] -u [left_cam_calib] -v [right_cam_calib] -L [left_img_dir] -R [right_img_dir] -l [left_img_prefix] -r [right_img_prefix] -o [output_calib_file] -e [file_extension]
```

For example, if you calibrated the left and the right cameras using the images in the `calib_imgs/1/` directory, the following command to compute the extrinsics.

```bash
./calibrate_stereo -n 27 -u cam_left.yml -v cam_right.yml -L ../calib_imgs/1/ -R ../calib_imgs/1/ -l left -r right -o cam_stereo.yml -e jpg
```

### Undistortion and Rectification

Once you have the stereo calibration data, you can remove the distortion and rectify any pair of images so that the resultant epipolar lines become scan lines.

```bash
./undistort_rectify -l [left_img_path] -r [right_img_path] -c [stereo_calib_file] -L [output_left_img] -R [output_right_img]
```

For example

```bash
./undistort_rectify -l ../calib_imgs/1/left1.jpg -r ../calib_imgs/1/right1.jpg -c cam_stereo.yml -L left.jpg -R right.jpg
```

Commit message:

Updated readme with how to use matlab to opencv scripts

README.md, after:

## OpenCV C++ Stereo Camera Calibration

This repository contains some sources to calibrate the intrinsics of individual cameras and also the extrinsics of a stereo pair.

### Dependencies

- OpenCV
- popt

### Compilation

Compile all the files using the following commands.

```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
make
```

Make sure your are in the `build` folder to run the executables.

### Get images from webcams

This is a small helper tool to grab frames from two webcams operating as a stereo pair. Run the following command to use it.

```bash
./read -w [img_width] -h [img_height] -d [imgs_directory] -e [file_extension]
```

Once it is running, hit any key to grab frames. Images are saved with prefixes `left` and `right` in the desired directory.

### Intrinsic calibration of a single camera

This is only for lenses which follow the pinhole model. If you have fisheye lenses with a very wide field of view then see [this](https://github.com/sourishg/fisheye_stereo_calibration) repository. The calibration saves the camera matrix and the distortion coefficients in a YAML file. The datatype for these matrices is `Mat`.

Once you have compiled the sources run the following command to calibrate the intrinsics.

```bash
./calibrate -w [board_width] -h [board_height] -n [num_imgs] -s [square_size] -d [imgs_directory] -i [imgs_filename] -e [file_extension] -o [output_filename]
```

For example, the command for the test images in `calib_imgs/1/` would be

```bash
./calibrate -w 9 -h 6 -n 27 -s 0.02423 -d "../calib_imgs/1/" -i "left" -o "cam_left.yml" -e "jpg"
```

### Stereo calibration for extrinisics

Once you have the intrinsics calibrated for both the left and the right cameras, you can use their intrinsics to calibrate the extrinsics between them.

```bash
./calibrate_stereo -n [num_imgs] -u [left_cam_calib] -v [right_cam_calib] -L [left_img_dir] -R [right_img_dir] -l [left_img_prefix] -r [right_img_prefix] -o [output_calib_file] -e [file_extension]
```

For example, if you calibrated the left and the right cameras using the images in the `calib_imgs/1/` directory, the following command to compute the extrinsics.

```bash
./calibrate_stereo -n 27 -u cam_left.yml -v cam_right.yml -L ../calib_imgs/1/ -R ../calib_imgs/1/ -l left -r right -o cam_stereo.yml -e jpg
```

### Stereo calibration for extrinsics (Using MATLAB essential/fundamental matrices)

Once you use MATLAB's Stereo Camera calibration app to compute the intrinsics for both the left and the right cameras, you can use their intrinsics to calibrate the extrinsics between them. The output file from this script can be called by a rosservice to set the camera info topics being published.

```
./matlab_to_opencv -u [left_cam_calib].yaml -v [right_cam_calib].yaml -l [stereo calib bash script].bash -r [stereo calib bash script].bash
```

For example, if your left and right camera calibration files are called `cam_left.yaml` and `cam_right.yaml`, use the following commands to compute the extrinsics.

```
./matlab_to_opencv -u cam_left.yaml -v cam_right.yaml -l set_leftcam_info.bash -r set_rightcam_info.bash
```
### Undistortion and Rectification

Once you have the stereo calibration data, you can remove the distortion and rectify any pair of images so that the resultant epipolar lines become scan lines.

```bash
./undistort_rectify -l [left_img_path] -r [right_img_path] -c [stereo_calib_file] -L [output_left_img] -R [output_right_img]
```

For example

```bash
./undistort_rectify -l ../calib_imgs/1/left1.jpg -r ../calib_imgs/1/right1.jpg -c cam_stereo.yml -L left.jpg -R right.jpg
```
